Script of Choice: Translate sequences into amino acids for alignment.


Description: The script will follow the process of transforming DNA to amino acids by first
converting DNA to mRNA, and then mRNA into amino acids. The function will take in a FASTA
file as input and output an array/list of amino acids as output.

Input:
*FASTA file: String
- The script will take in a FASTA file as a string (i.e. "sequence1.fasta") and use File I/O
to transform it into output

Output:
*Sequence Name: String
- The script will output the name of the sequence obtained from the first line of the FASTA file
*Amino Acids: List[]
- The script will output a list of amino acids obtained from the DNA input


The script will have a shebang line at the beginning to indicate what interpreter to use in executing it.

The script will have a function header with appropriate function and input names. The script's function headers will also utilize type hints for error-handling and informative purposes.

The script will read in the DNA input file and pop/remove and save the first line of the file as the sequence name. The script will also utilize error-handling to ensure that the file can be opened, otherwise inform the user that there is an I/O Error (or any such error) through the use of try/catch/except and raise statements.

The script will utilize a dictionary of the codons and what amino acids they correspond to (either it is manually created or utilizing Biopython or PyPi)

The script will create an empty list for mRNA reads and it will be named appropriately.

The script will utilize a while loop to keep reading the DNA file line by line till the end of file (EOF) is reached. Inside the while loop, the script will utilize a for loop for each character/read in that line of the sequence. The script will utilize an if/elif/else structure inside the for loop to find the complementary mRNA of the DNA read and append it to the list.

The script will create another list dedicated to amino acids and it will be named appropriately. The script will take advantage of list comprehension and will use the dictionary of codons and match every 3 mRNA reads via for loop and add the corresponding amino acid value to the list.

The script will return both the name of the sequence and the list of amino acids. 
